I am sure you've seen the ads monday.com
sales CRM in this video I'm going to be
explaining exactly how to use it I'll be
going over leads deals contacts and
accounts I'll also be explaining the
pricing just before we get into the
video if you need any help with
monday.com training or set up check out
the link below we would love to help now
let's head over to arguably the most
complicated part of the monday.com sales
CRM and that is in fact the pricing okay
so you can see here we've got a number
of different options we've got basic
standard and pro but often the first
question we get is how does the user
system work so on the left hand side
here you've got choose team size and
this is a number of seat options seats
are essentially users okay so the
minimum number of seats you can have is
three going up to five and then ten the
annoyance of this is you cannot let's
say have six seats if you need six seats
you do in fact have to pay for 10 seats
uh the benefit of that is I suppose
relatively speaking monday.com CRM is
not particularly expensive but that is
an annoyance um and we get a lot of
queries around that so hopefully that
clears that up one one C is one user so
three seats is three users so on so
forth now comes coming over to package
my recommendation really
is to just go for the professional
version of monday.com sales CRM the
basics good and very cheap very cost
effective standard again is okay I think
you really get the most features and
benefits from the professional version
and for the price difference which is
relatively insignificant
um I would recommend going for the
professional version professional
version will give you access to mass
emailing which is unbelievably popular
uh very in demand feature which I'm sure
you can imagine
um you also get the formula column which
when used correctly can be very very
powerful you also have up to 25
000 automations per month so that's
actions per month whereas on the
standard you only have 250 that's the
same for Integrations as well so for the
small price difference I would recommend
going for the professional version now
once you sign up to yourmonday.com sales
CRM it will look just like this okay and
I'm going to walk you through exactly
what each of these areas is designed to
do I'm not going to go into too much
detail on how to actually use the
functionality there is another video up
here which you are more than welcome to
go ahead and watch that will show you
more of the in-depth functionality of
monday.com generally this is just a
video specific to monday.com sales CRM
so firstly we are on the leads area now
what exactly is
[Music]
is in a nutshell leads are pre-qualified
sales inquiries what do I mean by that
leads are people that have inquired
about your products or service but you
have not necessarily worked out if
they're a good fit for your products or
service if they if they can afford your
product or service if you particularly
want to work with them and that leads
maybe people that you can't necessarily
get in touch with so that's where you
would put all of your inquiries that are
new business related you would funnel
them all into the leads area and then
you with an attempt or with the hope to
actually qualify those leads once they
are then qualified they are then
converted over to the deals area where
you would go ahead and manage the sales
process so Leeds area is where you would
handle the lead qualification area
well yeah you look to qualify your lead
from the Leeds area of course another
good example or way of understanding is
leads area is for appointment Setters
deals area is for closers okay super
super simple so new leads will populate
you'll have their name here
you have the status of the lead so new
lead attempts to contact contacted
qualified or unqualified of course you
can add additional columns on the right
hand side if you'd like to to track
business specific data like the product
they might be interested in or if you
can track the source that they came from
so on and so forth I would also look to
add a few additional groups maybe add
two groups one for qualified one for
unqualified and then maybe even write
some automations to say when status is
equal to qualified move item to group
qualified weirdly enough this is not
stuff that monday.com provide
automatically but when added is really
really helpful so I would bear that in
mind now a couple of additional things
that I will show you that is monday.com
sales CRM functionality this is you have
access to this across the entire system
but I'll just demonstrate it on the
leads area try and give you as much
value as I can as quickly as possible if
you go ahead and select one or even two
of the leads you will have this email
option down the bottom here if you click
that email this will allow you to mass
email your leads now if you've got a
list of two or 200 you can go ahead and
do exactly the same same thing and press
email I believe and I might be wrong but
I believe there is a limit to 500 mass
emails per selection so you can't select
more than 500 people to mass email at
any given time but uh correct me if I'm
wrong there now one other important
piece of functionality is if you hover
over the hover over this uh speech
bubble with the plus button in it go
ahead and click that option you'll be
presented with this screen here now this
will allow you to manage the pipeline
whichever pipeline it is whether it be
deals or leads in this instance it's of
course leads or if there's no pipeline
at all this is where you can also add
activity some manage your activities
with that particular lead and also send
them additional emails you'll see an
email chain here when you've connected
your email account your monday.com sales
CRM very very a useful feature I would
strongly recommend looking to do that we
also have updates at the top here now I
like to describe this as kind of like an
internal monday.com Twitter what you can
do is write an update to your colleagues
about about a particular lead so you can
say I've spoken with Nick for example
then you can act literally like Twitter
at someone else in the organization that
has a user inside of monday.com and then
they'll be able to see it they can then
respond back they can like it dislike it
Emojis all of that jazz is available to
access using that speech bubble there
you're aware about the um of course of
course adding The Columns with the basic
functionality in monday.com they do
provide a form as well you can go ahead
and use this form you can share it and
if you go ahead and embed it which you
can do you are then able to put that
let's say on your website and you can
then have people submit directly from
your website into the leads area of
yourmonday.com sales CRM not something
that I would recommend I would use
alternative form capture methods or lead
capture methods but whatever works best
for you
so now you're aware of what the leads
area is I would then head over to the
deals area and in order to qualify a
lead unfortunately this is not
inherently set up in monday.com but you
would need to connect this button with
your contacts area inside of monday.com
and then connect it to your deal so I'll
walk you through that what would happen
is use press move to contacts that would
create a new contact record inside of
monday.com you would then head over to
your deals area create a new deal so I'm
just going to do Nick Boardman
as an example and then you look to
associate the contact that has been
automatically created with that
particular deal so that's how this works
and then you would associate let's say
Phoenix Levy with this particular deal
and if you go to the contacts area which
I'll come on to in a moment's time
you'll be able to see what that looks
like so what is Deals Deals is the
actual sales process and this is where
you manage the start so not the new
inquiry but the qualified inquiry to
either closed one or closed lost super
super simple you've got the different
stages here again you're more than
welcome to adjust these to your liking
whatever's going to be suitable for you
of course you will end up having a one
or a lost
um you will probably notice again
monday.com have not added a closed lost
unfortunately so I'd probably recommend
adding that as a new group which I'll
just demonstrate quickly maybe change
the color to Red unfortunately as much
as it pains me to say we all lose deals
um sad times but it is what it is and so
you're going to need that there as well
you could also set up an automation to
say when status is equal to close lost
move item to group closed lost but
whatever you want to do that's entirely
up to you you have the deal area again
stages the owner of the deal the value
of the deal the contact related to the
deal so the person that you're
communicating with to sell to them again
the same principle applies if you want
to add additional columns to your deals
area you are more than welcome to I
would strongly recommend doing it
because this is very very basic you want
to track as much information as possible
about your deals uh where the product
they're interested in where they've come
from there's a lead source so on so
forth there's so many things that you
could go into there
we also have some pre-created views
we've got the kanban view I'm a massive
fan of the kanban view just makes it a
lot easier to manage your deals as
opposed to looking at at them in that
kind of almost xl-esque view you can go
to the kanban view and drag and drop
from one stage to another super super
easy and that will of course update on
the actual uh main table page there and
you can see that you're just changing
the status of the process we also have
forecasting so if you do have any of
this set up
um you will have to obviously add in
your forecasting then this will show you
your sales forecasts in your deals area
which of course very very helpful
everyone wants to know uh the forecast
is sales for the years and so on so
forth in the months so once you're
familiar with the deals area we then
have contacts and just to reiterate this
is the sales process so you're going
from Discovery to close one or close
lost then we have contacts contacts are
literally just people
um so every contact will work for an
organization which is an account so
account is organization contact is
person you can see here that you'll have
deals associated with that particular
contact now there are going to be
instances where you are selling b2c but
you are managing them in a CRM system so
you might not necessarily need the
accounts area but you can create a link
between accounts and contacts
I would probably recommend doing that to
be honest with you just so from a
contact level you know exactly which
contacts worked for which accounts but
you can see here we've got Phoenix Levy
there are two deals associated with this
particular person and that's his total
deal value so that's a mirror column and
I believe it would probably be if I go
to customize mirror column it'll be us
oh it's not selected but if I select sum
there'll be a sum of all of his deals
and you'll be able to see his I suppose
contact value but we shouldn't ever
perceive someone in that way but you
know that that data is available to you
so these are your contacts and of course
like I said these would be generated
from the leads area it would create a
new contact when you set up that button
and then you create a new deal and
Associate that particular contact with
that deal you uh you've got another view
we've got a card option here which just
literally just shows you a bit of data
again I will say this again for the
third time in this video please please
please add additional columns just to
track
um everything else you can see here that
you can add the account so you can see
which account is associated with which
contact like I mentioned moments ago
you've got title um company
but I would also add additional
information that you need to track might
be an address for example might be their
vat number for for on an account level
might be their personal phone and their
work phone there's so much information
that you need you should track in your
CRM system so make it as bespoke to your
business as possible it's super super
easy to do so so moving on from contacts
we have accounts now accounts it's
literally businesses like I've mentioned
again same principle applies basic
information is available you can go
ahead and add more you can add the core
CRM columns or the more columns and add
additional information to track for your
accounts accounts literally being
businesses or organizations that you
work with so hopefully you're familiar
with the leads deals contacts and
accounts area I'm just going to show you
activities as well so you can create
activities this is kind of like a to-do
list very very similar
um you've got account activities you can
group them by account contact lead and
deal
um what you would then look to do let's
say I need to do an activity for a deal
I'll just go ahead and say call Nick
Boardman just just as an example and
then what you've what option you've got
here is really really clever if you
select this this is where you can
associate your activity with another
record inside of the system so you would
associate your activity with a lead or a
deal what you have here is a drop down
menu of the different areas so let's say
I need to associate this particular
activity with a deal we can go ahead and
select that and that will show you all
of your deals and unselect it select the
cut the Nick Boardman deal
to say call Nick Boardman and then we've
got start time end time what the status
of this particular activity is and then
we've got the activity type as well
whether it's a meeting a phone call call
summary you can again please adjust this
according to what works for you and your
particular organization
um they're really simple to manage we've
got the dashboard at the top here which
shows activity types this month activity
progress and we've got monthly
activities that were done and then a
count of graph of the number of
activities that were done per month
again please adjust this to your liking
but hopefully this just provides some
useful information to get you started
and get you managing your data inside of
the system
moving on from activities we have this
getting started page I've essentially
got you started or at least I hope I
have anyway
um if you have any additional questions
I'm sure there'll be some useful stuff
here or you can check out my channel as
well which provides loads of content
um and then finally we have the sales
dashboard now this is going to provide
insightful information about your sales
your sales process average value of one
deals actual Revenue active deals in the
pipeline you've got monthly goal your
sales pipeline forecasted Revenue by
month forecasted Revenue by stage deals
stages by rep actual Revenue by month
deal progress based a month added
there's so much information here and
there's so much you can add as well you
can go ahead and press the edit button
and add additional widgets if you want
to see numbers average values so on and
so forth I'm absolutely certain this
data is going to be valuable to you as a
business owner or sales manager sales
director or just a sales representative
so I would leverage having this
information to as much as you possibly
can now hopefully you're from familiar
with the sales CRM that monday.com
provides just to recap leads are
pre-qualified sales inquiries deals are
the actual sales process of a qualified
inquiry to close one and close lost
we've got contacts which are people
accounts which are businesses and
activities which are tasks that you
could do in association with the lead
deal account or a contact and then we've
got the sales dashboard to see data on
the performance of your business thank
you ever so much for watching if you
have any questions drop a comment below
hopefully this has been helpful and I'll
see you soon goodbye